So, if you had to choose between two athletes, uh,
who would dominate competition one who drills a hundred thousand reps of
a specific take down specific technique or one that spends that time live.
Wrestling, both. Um, it's the same. And I like to live wrestling.
I was always wanting to live wrestling, bring the warm up in the,
of the live wrestle. Let's go. Um, but where I got really,
really good was a repetition and I was disciplined enough to know that the
things that you hate to do in this sport are the things that make you the very
best.
And that is a rare ingredient as I've gotten older and you spend a lot of time
communicating that to younger at the.
So the thing, if you feel yourself hating something,
that's probably a thing you should be doing.
Yes. As a matter of fact, I had a strength coach when I was really young.
He was just a fricking guy that would, he wore white.
Like he was almost like a nurse nurses' clothes.
He wore all white from head to toe and he was in Cheyenne, white,
me and his first name was Walt.
And he taught Terry and I hate the bar away from you on that last rep when
you're dead. And whether it's a curl, you hate it up.
And then you do the negative and you hate it down and you hate that bench up and
you hate it. And you look at the bar and you hate it away from you.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>. So the, you know, I learned and that I was young.
I was young. And, um, I remember being born,
my mom's sister lived out there and we were dropped off to stay out there with
our cousins. And I was born a little bit and they always treated us really good,
but this was like the, the single most, um,
bright spot in a, in a weightlifting like enlightenment,
even though I lifted weights,
but I never knew the psychology behind lifting weights. It's just to look good.
And so you can flex and look in the mirror or is it for performance?
And this guy was about performance.
And you said repetition. Do you mean technique?
I'm talking repetition technique, technique, technique, drill, drill, drill,
hit, hit, hit drive, finish, hit, hit, hit drive, finish.
So you believe in that you believe that wholeheartedly.
So, I mean, uh.
And I believe that you have to do it on your own.
I don't believe in the coach taking you to the promised land.
So in the guys today or in yourself,
how often do you see people that, uh,
grow the belief of doing 10,000, 20,000 reps?
I think it's rare. I think it's very rare. And I think it's especially rare.
I mean, you can talk about that as a coach, but it's especially rare to, uh,
bring a guy to that understanding, but you never stop trying.
You're always trying to reach him. I mean,
we didn't have a good performance out there tonight, but you know what?
You don't stop communicating <affirmative> and there's a lot of
programs out there that put their head down when things aren't going their way.
And then as things start going their way, then they rise with the tide.
There was no difference in the demeanor that, that, of our corner.
And we talk about that's a philosophy.
And so you're reaching your guys that way. Um,
so go back to your point or your question, you know, do you believe in the,
in the 10,000 reps and yes, I do. And, but.
How do you inspire people to do that? So, well, you communicate by example,
but communication, but I mean, that's a, in my experience, what I've seen,
uh, communicating the value of repetition and drilling is a hard.
Thing to communicate.
It's hard and it's very rare to have somebody that goes in there and will do it
on their own.
Do, do you have young guys that step up and do that? We.
Do, and it's rare.
And the guys that do it on their own and have done it on their own,
or that got eyes that are in that lineup and, and doing well. Um,
the other thing is, is that when you talk about, uh, getting to that next level,
um, a lot of times it's, you know,
what held you back was I did everything the coach asked of me and nothing more,
right? I mean, you can be a great guy for a, for an a, for a coach,
as an athlete. And you did everything that coach asked,
but you did nothing more.
So you're really looking for the guys that go way beyond what.
The coach says. We don't want guys that are looking at their watch,
running out of the room when practice is over.
We want guys that know what they have to get done and might leave early,
but they're not looking at their watch, right? They might be done early.
They might be, we might be on a whole different path.
And this guy just excuses himself. I'm all about that. We are not,
we are not autocrats.
There's an internal engine in there.
Is that something you're born with or is that something you can.
Develop? I think you are born within it. You develop it also.
And I think that there has to be comfort and I go back to the communication that
young people are comfortable enough to communicate that I need
to take the day off.
So what do you mean by communication? Just letting exactly so letting,
letting athletes, uh, be part of their own development.
Communication to me is, is,
is letting them know what they're,
what they need to do to get themselves in contention,
to be the starting quarterback mm-hmm <affirmative>, um, and then to give them
boosts and compliments when they earn them. Um,
and I don't have time to waste with,
um, with lies and cheating. And when I say cheating,
I'm talking about when they cheat themselves. And so there,
those become very direct conversations and the conversation starts like this.
I don't have time to waste it, neither do you.
And so why are we wasting our time?
And here's what I mean at we're having a conversation about, you know,
your accountability. If you look in the mirror and you're accountable,
then we are, we aren't taking the time to go through this.
We're already on our way to solving the problem. Problem.
Can't be solved without that understanding.
And that's has to do with symptoms that you see in the wrestling room.
There's something where the fire's not quite there that has do with mental,
emotional, spiritual, physical, got it, everything,
everything that you know about, you know,
I had a boss and our athletic director is a great athletic director and he gives
us everything. We need to be <affirmative>, but I had a boss,
his name was Fred Mims, and I didn't think anybody could be better than him.
And then all of a sudden this Jean Taylor guy came in and I didn't,
and then he was pretty do gone good too. And he actually, you know,
was just like Fred and maybe even a little bit more current mm-hmm
<affirmative>.
And then he ended up taking a job at Kansas state where he's an athletic
director now. And, uh, and then this, this lady Barbara Burke in,
and I didn't think anybody could be better than Jean Taylor or Fred Mims.
And this Barbara Burke she's better than both of 'em.
And the reason why is because she's a problem solver, she doesn't waste time.
She's direct and she's a problem solver, and that's what we need.
You need problem solvers.